Question 1. Read the following passage and answer the questions given below:

Time management has become one of the key issues of the second half of the twentieth century. Managers, 

grappling with work pressures and deadlines, have come to recognize that time is a precious commodity to 

be ‘saved’, ‘gained’, and not ‘wasted’ or ‘lost’. 

Tick the right choice: 

Time management was one of the major issues

a) in the beginning of the twentieth century 

b) in the latter part of the twentieth century

c) in the twentieth century 

ii. Give two reasons why managers are giving so much importance to time management.


iii. Explain the difference between period of time and point of time giving your own examples.

iv. Do you think time management can reduce stress? Discuss.
Answer. 1a. (b) in the latter part of the twentieth century. 1b. The managers are giving so much importance to time management because of: • Work pressures • Deadlines They believe that the time is a precious commodity to be 'saved, 'gained', and not 'wasted' or "lost! 1c. The difference between a period of time and point of time is as follows: A Period of time: A period of time is an era in which the advances take place slowly. Example: the 1980s gave us a period of rapid economic growth Point of time: A point of time is an instant that leads to drastic changes. Example: Black Monday was a point of sudden financial catastrophe 1d. Yes, I think time management can reduce stress. As it is mentioned in the passage that stress, where the jobs to be done exceed the available time, can be reduced to an acceptable and productive level. This is how time and adequate planning improves the efficiency and helps in meeting the deadlines. 1e. I) Coming to grips with something: Grappling i) Latest time by which an activity must be completed: Deadlines ii) Article which can be bought and sold: Commodity iv) Make a division between two things: Differentiate V) Time when the world was created: Beginnings of creation vi) Unclear period of time: Mists of the future vii) Terrible event: Catastrophe viii) Short: Brief ix) Slow and steady: Gradual x)

Question 2. Pick out words/phrases from the passage which have the following meanings. (10 Marks)

i. time when the world was made

ii. area

iii. latest time by which an activity must be completed.

iv. step by step.

v. article which can be bought and sold

vi. make a division between two things

vii. work very hard to solve a problem

viii. unclear period of time

ix. time or place when jobs cannot be carried out, usually because of other pressures

Answer : The words/phrases from the passage which have the following meanings are : 
i coming to grips with something : grappling 
Collins English Dictionary defines 'grapple' as 'If you grapple with a problem or difficulty, you try hard to solve it.' "Grappling' is the present participle form of 'grapple. 
ii latest time by which an activity must be completed : deadline Cambridge English Dictionary defines 'deadline' as 'a time or day by which something must be done.
iii article which can be bought and sold : commodity Cambridge English Dictionary defines 'commodity' as 'anything that can be bought and sold.'

x. terrible event.


Question 3. Q3:
Put the verbs in brackets in their correct form. (10 Marks)
We…………i…………(write) to tell you about the reorganization at Softsys. As you
……….ii…………(know), we …………..iii………..(trade) for two years now and
…………iv…………..(establish) a reputation as a reliable local supplier of business software. On the one
hand, the rapid growth in our business during this period………v………..(give) us very good results; on
the other, this increased business…………….vi…………..(now place) a lot of pressure on our
organization. So, we ……………vii……………..(currently change) the structure of Softsys so that we can
continue to provide the level of service and support that you, as a valued customer, …….viii…….(expect).
We ……..ix……(not plan) any major changes; the company……….x………(continue) to be owned and
run by the three partners.

Answer. 
i. Write

ii. Know

iii. traded

iv. established

v. gave

vi. placing

vii. change

viii. expect

ix. didn't plan

x. continues


Question 4. Your prospective employer asked you to prepare a presentation on any one of the following: (10 Marks)
You may use visual aids to support your presentation. Presentation should consist of atleast 20 slides.

i. Role of Artificial Intelligence in Education
ii. Cloud Computing Applications

Answer. 1. The goals of artificial intelligence include mimicking human cognitive activity. ... Algorithms often play a very important part in the structure of artificial intelligence, where simple algorithms are used in simple applications, while more complex ones help frame strong artificial intelligence.
2. The cloud is just a metaphor for the Internet. Cloud Computing is a technology uses the internet and central remote servers to maintain data and applications. Cloud computing allows consumers and businesses to use applications without installation and access their personal files at any computer with internet access.


Question 5. You have seen a job with a multinational company advertised in a newspaper for the post of Software
Engineer (Trainee). Prepare your own Resume/Biodata to apply for the post.

Answer. 
Answer:

21-C

Sector-132

National Software Company

Sector 30

Delhi

Subject: Application for  the post of Software Engineer (Trainee)

Sir:

With reference to the advertisement for situation vacant for a web designer immediately given in The HT on October 22, 2019, I am interested in the job. I am a professional web designer with 5 years’ experience. I have done diploma in conceptualizing, visualizing, designing and animation for websites. Currently I am working with Nova Web World. Given the opportunity, I will work according to your expectations. I am attaching my detailed resume with this letter. Looking forward to hearing from you.

Yours truly,

Akash


Question 6. You were told by the Project-Lead to organize an official meeting to invite suggestions from the Experts
regarding the use latest technologies for a proposed project. In this context, do the following: (10 Marks)
(a) Write an invitation through email to invite the Experts.
(b) Prepare the minutes of the meeting. 

Answer. 
a).
Hi Jone,

Hope you're doing well.

Just a reminder that our meeting to discuss project is later this week. Can't wait to hear your thoughts on project, and please bring any questions you have about it.

Remember to review on sunday before the meeting so we can make a final decision.

See you Thursday!

Akash Aggarwal
 b).
 1. Pre-Planning Meeting Minutes:
A well-planned meeting helps ensure effective meeting minutes.  If the Chair and the Secretary or minutes-taker work together to ensure the agenda and meeting are well thought out, it makes minute taking much easier. For example, depending on the meeting structure and the tools you use, the minutes-taker could work with the Chair to create a document format that works as an agenda and minutes outline as well.

Before you start taking notes, it’s important to understand the type of information you need to record at the meeting. As noted earlier, your organization may have required content and a specific mom format that you’ll need to follow, but generally, meeting minutes usually include the following:

Date and time of the meeting
Names of the meeting participants and those unable to attend (e.g., “regrets”)
Acceptance or corrections/amendments to previous meeting minutes
Decisions made about each agenda item, for example:
Actions taken or agreed to be taken
Next steps
Voting outcomes – e.g., (if necessary, details regarding who made motions; who seconded and approved or via show of hands, etc.)
Motions taken or rejected
Items to be held over
New business
Next meeting date and time

Whether you’ve been tasked with taking notes for a committee or you’ve been appointed Secretary to the Board of your organization, preparing meeting minutes doesn’t have to be an arduous task. Here are some tips and ideas that will help you get started with writing and preparing effective meeting minutes, as well as a meeting minutes sample and a meeting minutes template that you can follow.

This guide on how to write meeting minutes was prepared by WildApricot to help the volunteers and/or staff of small non-profits and membership organizations who may be new to the task of taking and preparing minutes of meeting for committees or Boards of Directors.

Please note that since the format, style and content requirements for meeting minutes varies depending on the organization and the type of committee or Board, this article offers only general guidelines to help get you started.


Question 7. 
Mark the stress in the following words: (10 Marks)
i) attend      attention
ii) believe    belief
iii) assist    assistance
iv) lovely     loveliness
v) commerce    commercial

Answer.
i). at·tend   at·ten·tion
ii).be·lieve  be·lief
iii).as·sist  as·sis·tance
iv).love·ly  love·ly
v).com·merce  com·mer·cial


Question 8. Write short notes on the following: (10 Marks)
i) Work Ethics in an Organisation
ii) Etiquette while using (a)Twitter and (b) Facebook

Answer. i). 
Rules and regulations ought to be same for everyone. Everyone needs to attend office on time irrespective of their designation, distance of their home from the workplace, salary or status. An individual cannot come to office late just because he is the team leader and his team is already present and working on his behalf. If a day’s salary of a clerk is deducted for coming late to work, it should be the same for the marketing manager as well.

Company’s policies need to be communicated clearly to each and every one. There should be transparency at all levels of hierarchy. Employees are the backbone of any organization and thus they must have a say in company’s goals and objectives.

An organization ought to respect its employees to expect the same in return. Rules and regulations should not be too rigid. Don’t expect an employee to attend office two days before his marriage date. If an employee is not keeping well, please do not ask him/her to attend office unless and until there is an emergency.

Management must not forget that money is a strong motivator for employees. Everything is important, be it career, growth, job satisfaction but what is most important is employee’s salaries. Do not unnecessary hold their salaries for a long time unless and until there is really shortage of funds. In case of marketing and sales employees, conveyance and mobile bills must be cleared at the earliest. Do not ask for unnecessary bills and documents.

ii).  For Twitter
1. Don’t automatically direct message people that follow you.
2. Provide more context in your tweets with Twitter’s latest update.
3. Don’t hijack another company’s hashtag.
4. Don’t buy followers.
5. Don’t stuff your tweets with keywords.

For Facebook
1. Don’t Like your own post.
2. Don’t post or tag photos of fans, customers, or employees without permission.
3. Don’t tag people or pages that aren’t relevant to your post.
4. Don’t ask for Likes, Comments, or Shares.
