Question 1. List and explain any ten security breaches in the Cyberspace. How can these breaches be handled with the use of technology?

Answer. 
1. Microsoft 

In a January 2020 blog post, Microsoft said that an internal customer support database on which the company stored anonymized user analytics had been accidentally exposed online. 
The post was somewhat understated. Over 250 million Microsoft customer records, spanning 14 years, were exposed online without any password protection. The naked database was discovered—and reported to Microsoft—by Bob Diachenko, a security researcher with Security Discovery.
Microsoft blamed the accidental server exposure on misconfigured Azure security rules the company deployed on Dec. 5, 2019. 
Upon learning of the gaffe, Microsoft engineers quickly remediated the configuration to prevent unauthorized access to the database. The company expressed confidence that its commercial cloud services were not exposed.
The 2020 data breach exposed email addresses, IP addresses, and other details stored in a support case analytics database. (Microsoft says that no other personal information was stored in the database.)

2. Estee Lauder

In February, security researcher Jeremiah Fowler came upon a massive online database belonging to cosmetics giant Estee Lauder.  According to Fowler, the unsecured database exposed confidential information stored in over 440 million customer records. 

No payment information or other sensitive data was found to be unprotected, but email addresses, IP addresses, ports, pathways, and storage information was there for the taking, by anyone who wanted it.

A spokesperson for Estée Lauder blamed the 2020 data exposure middleware security failures. That may have provided a way for malware to access applications, data, and systems. Apparently, the database was part of an “education platform” that didn’t contain any consumer data. The company maintains there was no evidence of any unauthorized use of the data.

3. MGM Resorts
Also in February, someone in a hacking forum leaked personal information about more than 10.6 million guests of MGM Resorts hotels.

The leaked contact information for millions of former hotel guests included records of celebrities that included Justin Bieber, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, and a number of government officials. MGM insists that no credit card information or passwords were exposed in the data breach.

Incredibly, this is not the first time confidential information about MGM guests had been openly published online. In mid-2019, MGM employees noticed there had been unauthorized access of a corporate server. That very same day, the stolen information started appearing in a number of hacking forums.

4.Facebook
In April, 2020, around the time COVID-19 protocols were starting to take effect, more than 267 million Facebook profiles popped up for sale on the Dark Web—for the princely sum of $600. 

The pirated profiles were traced back to a data leak discovered in December, but with additional PII (personally identifiable information), including phone numbers and email addresses. 

The leaked information would make it possible for cybercriminals to launch spear-phishing campaigns designed to collect Facebook user passwords through bogus email campaigns or SMS texts disguised as official communications from Facebook.

5. Zoom
In April of 2020, when stay-at-home orders were turning millions into teleworkers, use of video conferencing apps rocketed—with Zoom the primary beneficiary of the increased demand.

As record numbers of workers flocked to Zoom, cyber attackers were able to breach the credentials of over 500,000 Zoom teleconferencing accounts and post them for sale on the dark web for as little as $.02, or simply give the records away on various hacker forums. 

Evidence suggests that hackers canvassed dark web databases for previously compromised login credentials dating back to 2013. The tendency of users to recycle passwords gave the hackers easy access to many new Zoom accounts created by people who saw nothing wrong with reusing their dog’s name spelled backwards for their Zoom password.

Hackers quickly used the compromised passwords to launch credential stuffing attacks that gave them access to even more accounts. The end result? The “zoombombing” of remote workplace meetings by individuals possessing stolen credentials—malcontents who would log into live streaming meetings and create chaos in a variety of ways, including screensharing of disturbing images from pornography and shock videos.

Zoom responded by hiring intelligence firms to locate these password dumps and shut down thousands of websites designed to fool users into downloading malware or ceding their credentials. 

6. Magellan Health
April 2020 saw Healthcare giant Magellan Health fall victim to a phishing scam plus ransomware attack that affected 365,000 patients across eight affiliates and healthcare providers. 

The sophisticated 2020 cyber attack started with a phishing scheme to impersonate clients, a ruse that gave criminals access to a single corporate server on which to deploy malware that yielded sensitive patient details that included W-2 data and Social Security or Taxpayer ID numbers—information that could be ransomed for large sums of money

7. Cognizant 
Also in April, the Maze group launched a ransomware attack on Cognizant Technology Solutions (CTS), causing a disruption of services to the company’s clients. 

Confirming the data breach on its website, Cognizant said it had taken steps to contain the incident and notified clients about the attack as well as the measures it was taking to ensure protection. 

In a typical ransomware attack, cybercriminals infect a target company’s systems with a virus and demand payment for returning the data to a usable state. In the case of Cognizant, the Maze attackers demanded payment of a ransom to prevent it from publishing the breached information online.

In June, Cognizant, one of the largest IT managed services enterprises, announced that hackers had stolen customer information in a ransomware attack a few months earlier. The personal information taken in the heist included names, Social Security numbers, tax identification numbers, financial account information, driver’s licenses, and passport information.

8. Nintendo
In April, Nintendo originally reported that 160,000 users were affected by a mass account hijacking that leveraged the company’s NNID legacy login system. The hijacking gave data hackers access to payment services linked to these accounts, including PayPal accounts or credit cards the cybercriminals used to make unsolicited digital purchases. (Reports indicate that these attacks went on for weeks.)

Nintendo responded by shutting down all NNID logins and asking Switch owners to lock down their accounts. 

The gaming giant admitted that the attack may have exposed private information that included nicknames, email addresses, dates of birth and gender. While confirming that purchases were made through user accounts, Nintendo maintains that credit card data itself was not accessed.

Security experts suspect that weak passwords are to blame. Hackers took advantage of vulnerabilities associated with legacy accounts that used Nintendo Network ID (NNID) for older platforms such as Wii U and 3DS.  Designed for setup with the system’s original screen keyboards, NNID made it difficult for users to create strong passwords. (The current system allows users to create account profiles on a web browser.) To prevent additional breaches, Nintendo posted a tweet instructing members to enable 2-step authentication.

9. Twitter  
In July, social media powerhouse Twitter suffered an unprecedented hacking of celebrity accounts as the result of an audacious spear-phishing attack targeting Twitter employees. 130 accounts were hijacked, including the social media platforms of Barack Obama, Kanye West, Elon Musk, Joe Biden and Bill Gates.

Cybercriminals used the hacked accounts to publish a bitcoin scam while also gaining access to these individuals’ direct messages. Reportedly, the scammers netted more than $100,000 from people who had no reason to question why a celebrity would tweet:

“I’m giving back to the community. All bitcoin sent to the address below will be sent back doubled! If you send $1000, I will send back $2000. Only doing this for 30 minutes.”

Bitcoin tweets were published from 45 of the 130 targeted accounts. (The contents of DM messages were accessed on 36 of the accounts and Twitter data was downloaded from seven.) The cyber attack started with calls to Twitter employees by hackers posing as colleagues who needed credentials to internal systems. The trusting employees granted the callers access to the company’s internal support system, enabling the scammers to target additional employees. 

10. Whisper 
This past March, hackers posted the contents of a database containing 900 million Whisper posts, along with metadata related to the anonymous social media posts. In promoting its eponymous “secret-sharing” app, Whisper likes to refer to itself as the “safest place on the Internet”. 

That tagline might need a refresh after cyberthieves exposed all of the PII belonging to Whisper users, including personal confessions, ages, locations and other details—allowing anyone to access all of the content tied to anonymous “whispers” posted to the app.

The exposed records don’t provide any real names but they do include a great deal of demographic information such as the stated age of users, ethnicity, gender, hometown, nickname and any membership in groups, including many devoted to sexual confessions and discussions regarding sexual orientation and desires.

The database was discovered by independent researchers who reported that they were able to access a staggering 900 million user records dating from the original app release in 2012 to the present day. 


Quiestion 2. Explain the following terms with the help of an example: (20 Marks)
(i) Steganography
(ii) Different types of cipher used in cryptography
(iii) RSA algorithm
(iv) Authentication and authorisation
(v) Use of Hash function in security

Answer. 
i). Steganography is the technique of hiding secret data within an ordinary, non-secret, file or message in order to avoid detection; the secret data is then extracted at its destination. The use of steganography can be combined with encryption as an extra step for hiding or protecting data. Steganography can be used to conceal almost any type of digital content, including text, image, video or audio content; the data to be hidden can be hidden inside almost any other type of digital content. The content to be concealed through steganography -- called hidden text -- is often encrypted before being incorporated into the innocuous-seeming cover text file or data stream. If not encrypted, the hidden text is commonly processed in some way in order to increase the difficulty of detecting the secret content.
What are examples for steganography?
Steganography is practiced by those wishing to convey a secret message or code. While there are many legitimate uses for steganography, malware developers have also been found to use steganography to obscure the transmission of malicious code.

Forms of steganography have been used for centuries and include almost any technique for hiding a secret message in an otherwise harmless container. For example, using invisible ink to hide secret messages in otherwise inoffensive messages; hiding documents recorded on microdot -- which can be as small as 1 millimeter in diameter -- on or inside legitimate-seeming correspondence; and even by using multiplayer gaming environments to share information.

ii). 
Substitution ciphers. Replace bits, characters, or character blocks in plaintext with alternate bits, characters or character blocks to produce ciphertext. ...
Transposition ciphers. ...
Polygraphic ciphers. ...
Permutation ciphers. ...
Private-key cryptography. ...
Public-key cryptography.

iii). 
RSA algorithm is asymmetric cryptography algorithm. Asymmetric actually means that it works on two different keys i.e. Public Key and Private Key. As the name describes that the Public Key is given to everyone and Private key is kept private.

An example of asymmetric cryptography :

A client (for example browser) sends its public key to the server and requests for some data.
The server encrypts the data using client’s public key and sends the encrypted data.
Client receives this data and decrypts it.

The idea! The idea of RSA is based on the fact that it is difficult to factorize a large integer. The public key consists of two numbers where one number is multiplication of two large prime numbers. And private key is also derived from the same two prime numbers. So if somebody can factorize the large number, the private key is compromised. Therefore encryption strength totally lies on the key size and if we double or triple the key size, the strength of encryption increases exponentially. RSA keys can be typically 1024 or 2048 bits long, but experts believe that 1024 bit keys could be broken in the near future. But till now it seems to be an infeasible task.

Select two prime no's. Suppose P = 53 and Q = 59.
Now First part of the Public key  : n = P*Q = 3127.
 We also need a small exponent say e : 
But e Must be 

An integer.
Not be a factor of n. 
1 < e < Φ(n) [Φ(n) is discussed below], 
Let us now consider it to be equal to 3.

    
Our Public Key is made of n and e

iv). 

Authentication	                                                                                                                                    Authorization
Determines whether users are who they claim to be	                                                                                    Determines what users can and cannot access
Challenges the user to validate credentials (for example, through passwords, answers to security questions, or facial recognition)	   Verifies whether access is allowed through policies and rules
Usually done before authorization	                                                                                                      Usually done after successful authentication
Generally, transmits info through an ID Token                                                                                          	Generally, transmits info through an Access Token
Generally governed by the OpenID Connect (OIDC) protocol	                                                                              Generally governed by the OAuth 2.0 framework
Example: Employees in a company are required to authenticate through the network before accessing their company email	                   Example: After an employee successfully authenticates, the system determines what information the employees are allowed to access

v). 
Hash Function is a function that has a huge role in making a System Secure as it converts normal data given to it as an irregular value of fixed length. We can imagine it to be a Shaker in our homes. 
When we put data into this function it outputs an irregular value. The Irregular value it outputs is known as “Hash Value”.Hash Values are simply numbers but are often written in Hexadecimal. Computers manage values as Binary. The hash value is also data and is often managed in Binary. A hash function is basically performing some calculations in the computer. Data values that are its output are of fixed length. Length always varies according to the hash function. Value doesn’t vary even if there is a large or small value.  If given the same input, two hash functions will invariably produce the same output. Even if input data entered differs by a single bit, huge change in their output values. Even if input data entered differs huge, there is a very very minimal chance that the hash values produced will be identical. If they are equal it is known as “Hash Collision”.  Converting Hash Codes to their original value is an impossible task to perform. This is the main difference between Encryption as Hash Function.  


Question 3. Explain the security measures and security policies of an online systems. 

Answer. The single biggest thing you can do to protect a computer system from online threats is… don’t put it online. There’s a reason that “air-gapped” systems are often used for highly confidential information - if the bad guys can’t reach it, they can’t hack it.

Otherwise, you want to minimize the “attack surface” of the system. All of the usual protections apply here - don’t run any unnecessary ports or services, put a firewall up between the system and the big bad Internet, make sure all software (and firmware) is up-to-date, and configure the system so the users (or unauthorized processes) can’t install extra software.
Security policies are written guidelines related to security- from physical to information. The procedures are the things done to ensure policies are followed and controls implemented to support the policies.

Question 4. Why is Cyberlaws needed? How can cyberspace be regulated? Explain the cyberspace
regulation in India
